Not we spend some time looking at the examples.
Let's spend some time looking at the questions which are related to functional programming.
So what is functional programming functional programming is a programming paradigm.
I mean that's basically a veil of building programs that creates a computational evaluation of mathematical
functions.
OK it was written at the convention.
The most important thing is functional programming quite mutable data.
It avoids changing state.
So as we discussed earlier here some has a state of some the value of some keeps changing how in a functional
programming style the value of some does not keep changing all that we do is we calculate the halting
and assignment to some.
So the weights achieved is through something called stream.
So what is a stream.
So basically as we look at earlier a stream is nothing but a source of objects.
So here the objects are all that number.
So it is not as list these are the sorts of objects.
So in the example Abbo we are actually creating a stream from the list and streams usually have things
called an intermediate operation and a terminal operation.
For example in this particular example we are using fetor as intermediate operation we are think filter
using this condition.
What condition is art.
So here we are defining a function as art which is returning if the element is altered or not.
And if it's not art it would be filtered out.
So this filter is called an intermediate operation.
So what does the filter do filter takes a stream as an input.
Basically a list of items or a set of objects as an input and it would praeter them based on the predicate.
So if this predicate which is rooted in true or false.
If this is returning a value true then it would be in the list.
But if it's your fault it would be filtered out.
And this kind of an operation is called the intermediate operation.
And this one the last one which reduces the whole thing to one object.
So here what we are doing is we are calculating the sum of the whole thing.
So this is terminal operation.
So in a stream typically what we would do is we would have a lot of intermediate operations and one
terminal operation would look at them in detail a little later.
Let's look at one more example with the stream.
So basically if you look at this particular piece of code what it's doing it's creating a stream from
an army.
So it's using an airway and creating a stream so the function which is used is at is dot stream and
passing and repassing but we have a stream enough then what we are doing we are filtering it.
How are we filtering it.
Besant this condition to big with the string S is starting with our all.
So which of these are starting with arrow.
So this is the only one which will be left or what all the others will get filtered out.
So this expression which we are using here is called a lambda expression.
What we are defining here is actually a function.
So what we are saying is accept input s and see if that function in that string is starting with aro.
So it's basically like creating a function and this function this style of creating function in one
line is what is called a lambda expression.
We'll discuss that a little later as well.
So and then we are mapping.
So one of the intermediate operations we are using is filter the other intermediate operation we're
using with map.
So what we're doing is we are taking this value and we are mapping it to what we are mapping it to string
lowercase.
So the string to lower case is one of the functions in a string right.
It's basically a string that lowercase and you pass an S instead of using this kind of style.
I could have written it in the lambda expression state as well.
The same piece of code that we have here map string lowercase.
So this can also be written using an expression.
So I'm saying digging in S and read to me string that lower case of course and instead of using the
complete lambda expression this is kind of the shot.
Good.
So string colon colon two lowercase.
So what it does is it takes what Oprah modalist pass.
Then you go to this method and returns that will you back.
This is called a method reference.
What we're using string Plourde guess is called a method reference.
We'll discuss what method reference.
Very soon to start.
I'm going to take a step back.
Again.
What we did is we created a stream of address and we filtered out those ones we just starting with.
How did we do that.
We use a lambda expression and then again we are mapping the lamp.
Do we have a map.
We are mapping from the value to its lowercase.
So we are mapping every value from its value to lowercase.
And then what we are doing is we are trying to sort it.
So we are trying to do so are on what are what is leftover.
And then we are trying to print each value to the console.
In this particular example all these three things which are present in between are intermediate operations.
So this is a screen.
This is an intermediate operations and this is the terminal operation the terminal operation is the
one which would either consume the value which is present in here or kind of sum it up and give the
resultant value and things like that.
The intermediate operations on the other hand are the ones which are performed in between typical intermediate
operations are things like filtering so I have 10 items I want to filter out five of them and I would
want to be left with 5 or I would want to map one kind of whole value to another kind of value.
So you might want to do some logic and map from one to another and all you want to sort the list do
you have a list of 10 items you want to sort them by some vague operation on the other hand would consume
the whole thing and either send it to an outboard summing it up or something of that.
And so what we have been looking at until now is anything which is usually involving streams has a source
intermediate operation and a terminal operation.
The thing about intermitted operation always is it returns a new stream back to any intermediate operation
usually returns and you stream back and a terminal operation would either return the result.
I mean it might be a single integer or a single value or it might be a list or an array or it might
be saving something to the database or you might be sending something to the output or something of
that.
So this is how your functional programs are streams function programs would work.
So you have a source that's the stream and then you do the intermediate operations.
That is you either filter them the right logic or do anything with them and then you have the terminal
operation.
What do I do with that operations.
Basically intermitted operations are those ones which take a stream as input and return on the stream
as out.
But for example the examples are map.
So you'd want to map one value to another you fetor you want to filter in from a set of ten.
You only want to get three values distinct.
You only want the set of distinct values.
So if you have a set of 10 values with duplicates you want to remove the duplicate of each sorted.
So basically you want to store the list of things so you can see the example with distinct here.
So I'm using a distinct as intermediate operation in here.
And I'm printing out de-value so you can see 5:59 three are printed because those are the distinct values
in the list.
For example with sorted as well.
So you can see that we are sorting the values so it would be 1 1 2 2 3 6 sorted in the ascending order
and we have a filter example as well.
So we are filtering based on our condition to only the ones which are odd would be printed 1 3 and 7.
And we were also using a lot of terminal operations earlier.
So the terminal operations are basically producing a result or a side effect.
So one of the terminal operation is Reduce Reuse is basically to take the values and combine them into
a single value.
So you would tell how to combine them into a single value.
One of the functions is reduce So integer colon Collinson.
So first we are filtering the order values 1 3 and 7 and then we are summing it up.
So the result will be one place to replace 7 which is 11 which is to create a side effect.
So either you can print it to an output story to a database or things like that for each and we of passing
the function functions so we're passing a limited reference.
So what happens is for each element in this list which passes the filter what would happen.
This line of code would be executed and it would be like every line everything would be printed out
to 1 3 7.
Is that out of that particular thing.
The output of a terminal operator can also be a list for example.
So here we are using collect.
So what we are doing is we are collecting the list and we are putting them back to our numbers.
So we are taking numbers and filtering them and putting them to our numbers 1 3 7.
So we're using collect and the function which is used to collect start to list what are met the differences.
We only looked at a lot of metal differences on DNA test 2:59 colon is our.
This is a method reference and also be used integers some system out Prindle.
So these are all examples of metal differences basically metal differences and nothing but short cut
for lambda expression instead of defining a function here.
What we are doing is we are defining a function elsewhere and using the function using the method reference.
So a lambic solution is what we have been using at a number of places until now.
So this one is a lambda expression.
So you take number as input and written back number but more do not equal to zero.
So this is also under the lambda expression.
You take number as input and you are printing it to the output.
So these are all what we call as lambda expressions so they are in this state.
This is the parameters which are passed to that function.
And what should be the body of that particular function.
That's basically the function.
So it's basically like this lambda expression would translate to a function of this kind.
So if I want to write a function for that the way it would be is I would say public white because this
is not too of value back so public wide put in something and the input is number.
So the input is number and what I want to do with that number is system that are printed and numbered.
This is kind of the function that we are creating in here.
The thing with lambda expressions is whether you use lambda expression you can change it to a method
different.
Now instead of using this I can use the method reference.
So where is this method present in its lambda expressions list and colon colon.
It's as simple as that.
So now you are changing to a method reference.
You can either use the lambda expression or a method reference but that reference is the fact that you
can really use that method at number of places.
The thing about lambda expression is it keeps this code very very simple and easy to read.
A lamp expression is nothing but an anonymous function.
So this one does not have a name.
It's just has input and the code associated with it.
And we are saying for each value here is your dysfunction lambda expression is an anonymous function.
It's a method without a declaration.
There will be no access modifiers no return value declaration and no name.
It's a shorthand that allows you to write them at third in the same place you're going to use it.
So I'm going to use it here.
I'm going to write the function there is really useful in places where a method is used only once and
the method definition is very short.
As we start here this is an example of the lambda expression.
The thing is there is a huge amount of relationship between lambda expression and functional interfaces.
So what is a functional interface.
That's one of the first questions right.
So before we talk about the relationship between lambda expression and function interfaces we look at
a couple of functional interfaces and we have been writing a lot of code using fetor for each and all
this kind of stuff.
So from the start we were using filter radials for each.
And a lot of things.
So if you look at this particular thing feature for example this filter actually accepts a predicate.
So a predicate is something which is either true or false.
It takes an input and returns whether something is true or false.
So let's look at pretty good.
And I'm going to predicate now.
You can see that this predicate is annotated with something called functional interfaces.
So basically a predicate is something which takes one input.
It accepts one input and it don't whether it's true or false.
So this particular thing this particular interface has only one only one function defined in here.
So a functional interface is something which has only one method which is declared in this predicate
has only one function which is present in here.
A predicate would take an object as an input and read and true or false as output.
What are the other things that we looked at radials.
So if you look at the reduce it accepts a binary operator as one of the things.
So binary operatively is again a functional interface.
However if you look at the binary operator what it does.
So redos has a binary operator and the binary operator into an extent by function.
And this is the important method in the functional interface by function.
So it accepts two objects as input and you can return any value.
So that's a byte function.
So radials uses that.
So basically every integer colon colon some works.
It defines how to add two entities.
And what would happen is the right use operation would call that on all the integers.
Next one is for each.
So let's look at for each for these uses comes through consumer scans jubilees and the functional interface
the consumer.
If you look at it it accepts the object as an input but it does not return anything back it basically
consumes it.
So I use it that brings it to the output or app stores that do a database or things like that.
Kazuma just is a function interface or consuming.
So if you look at all these functional interfaces functionally interfaces have one method which is declared.
So if you look at all the functional interfaces they have only one method declared.
So the Lambeck expression is the function which is defining that method.
So instead of creating a new implementation of the consumer what we're doing is we are creating implementation
directly here using the lambda expression.
So that's the relationship between a function interface and a lambda expression.
So a function interface defines the input so far which accepts consumer.
So we're creating a consumer using the lambda expressions or foraging excerpts of consumer Kazuma basically
is a function which would take an object as input and return nothing as output.
So what we're doing here is we are creating an implementation of a consumer what we what are we using
to create the implementation of the consumer we are using a lambda expression.
So instead of defining exactly the entire method we are using the lambda expression to create a implementation
of the consumer.
Similarly here we are creating an implementation of the predicate functional interface.
So the deep predicate function interface defines one method which accepts object as input and returns
a boolean as output.
And we are creating a function here.
Upbraids.
I mean lambda expression here and this lambda expression implement the predicate interface as we discussed
when we are creating a lambda expression.
What we're really defining is a function which implements a predefined function interface.
So here we are actually what is a predicate.
A predicate is a functional interface.
What does it have.
It has one method which accepts object as an input entered and boolean as an interface and all here
we are using we are creating a lambda expression which is implementing this functional interface pretty
good.
There are other kinds of functional interfaces.
Function function is one which takes one it as an input and returns some other object as an output so
you can translate from one object to another object a consumer on the other hand is a functional interface
which accepts one element as an input and does not return anything as output to it basically consume
it sends it to an output sensor to a database tacked onto a queue or something of that kind.
And the other function interfaces the by function interface which we already looked at which accepts
two parameters as input and returns up single value as output.
In this video we looked at a lot of things related to lambda expressions streams and functional programming.
If you use two sequential style of programming for a long time I'm sure functional programming will
not be easy to understand.
If you had a starting programmer.
I would definitely recommend you to understand functional programming in detail.
One of the exercises I would really want you to do is to pick up this test and try and write a lot of
example code.
So the only way to understand functional programming very well is by making sure that you are writing
a lot of code and once you start writing code using the functional programming you will understand it
with a lot.
So what I would recommend you to do is to pick up some simple example of a normal procedural programming
and convert it into the functional programming state.
So that would be the exercise I would leave you with for this specific medium until the next step.
Perec.